---
layout: post
title: Fly on the Wall Lab
subtitle: Homework
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
comments: true
---

Daily life at Horace Mann during the COVID-19 pandemic is complicated with a slew of new rules and protocols.  Social distancing measures were put in place to attempt to staunch the speed of possible future infections, and after observing campus in this state, it is evident that there are many more effects.  In classrooms, large plexiglass dividers were put up between each desk as well as smaller, thin plastic dividers on the fronts of desks.  The combination of the various dividers, and their metal or wooden borders end up cluttering classrooms.  As a result, it is much more difficult to see everything in the classroom, and when a student raises their hand, teachers often can’t see them.  Due to the reduced class time for staggered dismissals, teachers are in a greater hurry to be able to go over everything they need to for the period, and thus are less likely to take as many questions as they usually would.  During free periods, most students flock to the field as it is a space where they are allowed to take mask breaks and eat.  However, on days when the field is wet or the weather is less than pleasant, students are forced to spend their time under one of the tents, or go inside.  With large amounts of students crowded under the two tents next to the pizza tent, there ends up not being enough chairs for the number of students who wish to sit there.  Consequently, students share chairs.  If they remain outside but leave the field, then they often end up seated on pathways, blocking foot traffic.  
As a result of another COVID-19 protocol, school went online for a fortnight.  This meant adjusting back to zoom classes, which have still not been perfected.  An example of one of the problems with online class is that whenever the teachers had bad connection and cut out, students would not alert them.  They would then miss out on whatever the teacher had said during the time the connection had been lost.  When a teacher screen shared, they wouldn’t notice students in the waiting room or chats that were sent.  They also are unable to see all the students, so if one of them raises their hand, they most likely won’t notice.  In such situations, the teacher usually says that students can just speak if they need to say something.  This will either result in no students asking anything, or disruptions to the class caused by too many students speaking out of turn.  Students are also less likely to participate in online classes, and there ends up being a few students who are the only ones participating.  When no one wants to contribute, there are silences, and if a teacher asks a questions and this happens, they tend not to cold call anyone.  In lecture-style classes, there’s less stimulation and students look zoned out, and since they’re doing zooms at home, other people in their home environment could distract them.  In general, over zoom it’s harder to pay attention since students and teachers have to focus on the same screen for hours.  Observing campus during the pandemic led to me understanding more about the daily life in Horace Mann as well as the COVID-19 protocols.  

I grouped my data into four main categories: Teachers, Student Participation, Student Attention, and Distancing Protocols.  Although unintentionally, the data I collected during online school and the data from on campus mostly ended up separated.  Already, that demonstrates the differences between the two types of learning.  If I had collected more data from both areas and formed more associations, I wonder if that separation would continue to the same extent.  The type of observations I collected in the two different environments also differed greatly.  In online school, I mainly focused on the users; students and teachers, as singular beings.  While on campus, I tended to notice my surroundings and physical, inanimate objects, such as the dividers between desks.  I believe this is due to the great difference in the way I collected data in the two spaces.  If I had attempted to use the same exact method of observation in both places, the datasets might have been able to interact more and comparing them would be less like apples and oranges.  
In the Horace Mann campus, my main focus was on the social distancing protocols, and what their effects were on everyday life.  For the most part, I find the distancing measures to be futile, some of which disrupt life in unnecessary ways.  Take the dividers on the fronts of desks, for example.  These were used for perhaps, the first week in school, and now it’s a rare occurrence that teachers request they be put up.  While as a safety measure, the front dividers were useful, they were near impossible to read the whiteboard through and made class much more difficult to follow.  The arrows on the floors of the hallways are not heeded, students crowd under tents in bad weather, and staggered dismissal leads to a negatively impacted learning experience.  These are all social distancing protocols that are either no longer followed so they do nothing safety-wise, or they actually work against the goal of social distancing.  Last year, I can recall that I never saw that much inter-grade mixing during lunchtime, in such a large crowd as the one under the tents.  This could end up actually spreading the infection across the grades that would usually remain separate.  Overall, I question the choice of the administration for keeping multiple of these measures in place when they evidently are not helpful.  Instead of the blurry front dividers that nobody uses, I would either remove them entirely, or get ones that students and teachers are actually able to see through.  I would set up another tent in the row of the three tents next to Lutnick, so there would be three tents in a row for students to eat their lunch in.  I would also remove the arrows from the floor, and directly instruct teachers to be aware of days they have reduced class times for staggered dismissals.  Of course, none of these changes are necessary, and there’s no telling whether they would actually be productive, though a couple would declutter the campus.  
Over zoom, my focus was on the students and teachers themselves, and most of the observations in the groups of Teachers, Student Participation and Student Attention.  A lot of my observations came from issues related to tech, such as how teachers are unable to see all the students.  That, combined with how teachers won’t notice chats or students in the waiting room while screen sharing, I came to realize that online school really affects student-teacher relationships.  Since during class time students can’t stay after to talk to the teacher, and there tend to be a small number of students in a class who are the only ones participating, the interactions between students and their teachers get reduced from few to almost none.  Online classes also tend to isolate students, and during the many times I considered this ever since March, I never delved into how teachers’ relationships with their students are effected.  The first couple months of school are when students are able to adjust to their various teachers; grading styles, participation expectation, work load, etc.  In this time period, teachers also learn more about the students; strengths and weaknesses, and can use that to tailor education and help students learn the best they can.  This is all a result of teacher-student interactions, and zoom cuts that off.  Since zoom is a less stimulating learning atmosphere, especially in lecture-style classes, students tend to zone out more often.  Besides the obvious consequence of missing out on whatever is happening in class, they subsequently would be more hesitant to then ask questions.  Students may believe that teachers would realize they weren’t paying attention, or that since they weren’t, someone else might have asked the question they wanted to ask and they wouldn’t have heard.  Teachers would then not realize that certain students were confused about certain topics, and therefore would not be able to help the students the best they could in the way that they could in a classroom.  For the most part, these problems are inevitable due to the more formal nature of a zoom class, but once the world adjusts more to life online, I believe that formality will ease away.  It is unfortunate that these bugs aren’t produced by tech, and able to be fixed by a stronger internet connection, but it makes the situation more interesting when the people themselves become the computers, in a sense.

The process which I used to find these answers was to constantly be aware of possible answers, as well as imagining possible scenarios that could play out.  At first, I tried to simply observe during my online classes.  This wasn’t the most effective method, as it led to me either being distracted from class or not finding anything of note.  I realized after a little while that it was more useful to let the ideas come to me, rather than actively seeking them out.  While sitting in my classes, if any issues were experienced, anything was surprising or worked unexpectedly well/badly, then I would just take note of it.  Instead of having the lab be my main focus or forgetting about it entirely, I always kept the lab in the back of my mind.  Looking back, I realize that using that process made the most sense, and even when I was outside of class, if I imagined a scenario that was applicable to the lab, then I would think to write it down.  During the period in school that, as a class, we roamed the campus looking for ideas, I worked with Loren to visualize scenarios that could possibly happen in various areas.  When walking through the breezeway between Rose and Fisher, I realized that the arrows on the floor that were supposed to direct foot traffic were never heeded.  Passing by the empty pizza tent reminded me of how food is only available for half the day, compared to the full day it used to be served.  Overall, from this lab I was able to fine tune my observational process and just be more aware of my surroundings - especially when it comes to the faults of zoom.

